.TH CHATTOR 1 "February 2026" "chattor 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
chattor \- peer\-to\-peer encrypted chat over Tor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chattor
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chattor
is a terminal chat application where each user runs their own Tor hidden
service via the embedded arti library. Messages are end\-to\-end encrypted with
Signal Protocol (X3DH key exchange + ChaCha20\-Poly1305). There are no central
servers, no accounts, and no metadata leakage. Each peer is both a client and
a server.
.PP
Your identity is an Ed25519 keypair generated on first launch. Your v3 .onion
address is created and managed by arti, persisting across restarts. No system
Tor installation is required \(em arti bootstraps and maintains Tor circuits
internally. Connection pooling reuses Tor circuits per peer for faster
messaging.
.PP
All data is stored locally in a SQLCipher\-encrypted database. Messages are
searchable via FTS5 full\-text search. Nothing is stored on remote servers or
third\-party infrastructure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable debug logging. Output goes to stderr.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-theme\fR \fINAME\fR
Set the color theme. Available presets:
.BR dark " (default),"
.BR light ,
.BR cyberpunk ,
.BR minimal ,
.BR rose\-pine ,
.BR rose\-pine\-moon ,
.BR rose\-pine\-dawn .
See
.B THEMES
section.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR
Use a custom configuration and data directory instead of the platform default.
Useful for running multiple isolated instances.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information and exit. Use \fB\-\-help\fR for extended help with
keybindings.
.SH GETTING STARTED
.TP
.B 1.
Build and run:
.B cargo build \-\-release && cargo run
.TP
.B 2.
On first launch, an Ed25519 identity is generated and arti begins bootstrapping
to the Tor network. An animated screen shows progress (typically 10\-30 seconds).
.TP
.B 3.
Once connected, the main TUI loads. Press
.B i
to view your identity \(em your .onion address and friend code.
.TP
.B 4.
Share your friend code or .onion address with someone. They press
.B a
and paste it to send you a friend request.
.TP
.B 5.
When a friend request arrives, press
.B f
to view requests, select one, then
.B A
to accept or
.B R
to reject.
.TP
.B 6.
Select a friend with Tab/arrows and press Enter. Type a message and press
Enter to send.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.SS "Navigation (sidebar focused)"
.TP
.BR Tab ", " Up / Down
Move between friends and channels.
.TP
.B Enter
Select friend or open conversation.
.TP
.B a
Add a friend.
.TP
.B i
View identity (onion address and friend code).
.TP
.B s
Subscribe to a channel.
.TP
.B p
Open your public channel.
.TP
.B f
View friend requests.
.TP
.B q
Quit chattor.
.SS "Chat (input focused)"
.TP
.B Enter
Send message.
.TP
.B Esc
Return to sidebar navigation.
.SS "Identity Modal"
.TP
.B o
Copy .onion address to clipboard.
.TP
.B c
Copy friend code to clipboard.
.TP
.BR i " or " Esc
Close modal.
.SS "Friend Requests"
.TP
.BR Up / Down
Navigate request list.
.TP
.B Enter
View request details.
.TP
.B A
Accept friend request.
.TP
.B R
Reject friend request.
.TP
.B Esc
Go back.
.SS "Ephemeral Messages"
.TP
.BR Up / Down
Select expiry duration.
.TP
.B Enter
Confirm selection.
.TP
.B Esc
Cancel.
.SS "Channel View (own channel)"
.TP
.B Enter
Compose and publish a post.
.TP
.B Esc
Return to sidebar.
.SS "Channel View (subscribed)"
.TP
.B Esc
Return to sidebar.
.SH FRIEND CODES
Friend codes are 32\-word mnemonics derived from your Ed25519 public key. Each
byte of the 32\-byte key maps to one word from a fixed 256\-word dictionary,
making the encoding deterministic and reversible.
.PP
Codes are displayed as 8 groups of 4 words. Words within a group are separated
by dashes; groups are separated by spaces. Example:
.PP
.RS
ace\-act\-add\-age ago\-aid\-aim\-air ale\-all\-and\-ant ...
.RE
.PP
When adding a friend, you can paste either a friend code or a raw .onion
address \(em both are accepted.
.SH BROADCAST CHANNELS
Each user automatically has two broadcast channels: Public and Friends Only.
Public channels are visible to anyone who knows your .onion address. Friends
Only channels are limited to accepted friends.
.PP
Posts are Ed25519\-signed by the publisher, ensuring authenticity. Subscribers
pull new posts periodically (every 5 minutes) via sync requests. Publishers see
a "seen by N" read receipt count per post.
.PP
Channels retain the 100 most recent posts. When friends accept each other, they
automatically subscribe to each other's channels.
.SH THEMES
.B chattor
ships with 7 color themes. Set via
.B \-\-theme
flag or in the TOML config file.
.TP
.B dark
Muted grays with blue accents. Default theme.
.TP
.B light
Bright background with dark text.
.TP
.B cyberpunk
Neon greens and magentas on a dark background.
.TP
.B minimal
Monochrome, low contrast.
.TP
.B rose\-pine
Soft pink and gold tones on a dark background.
.TP
.B rose\-pine\-moon
Rose Pine variant with cooler tones.
.TP
.B rose\-pine\-dawn
Light variant of Rose Pine.
.PP
Custom colors can be set in
.I ~/.config/chattor/theme.toml
(Linux) or
.I ~/Library/Application\\ Support/chattor/theme.toml
(macOS). Any color field from the built\-in themes can be overridden using hex
color values.
.SH SHELL COMPLETIONS
Shell completion scripts are included in the
.B completions/
directory of the source distribution.
.TP
.B Bash
Copy
.I completions/chattor.bash
to
.IR ~/.local/share/bash\-completion/completions/chattor .
.TP
.B Zsh
Copy
.I completions/_chattor
to a directory in your
.BR $fpath .
.TP
.B Fish
Copy
.I completions/chattor.fish
to
.IR ~/.config/fish/completions/ .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/chattor/theme.toml
Theme color overrides (Linux).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/chattor/messages.db
SQLCipher\-encrypted database containing messages, friends, channels, and
identity (Linux).
.TP
.I ~/Library/Application\\ Support/chattor/
Configuration and data directory (macOS). Contains both theme config and
database.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B chattor
Start with default settings and dark theme.
.TP
.B chattor \-\-theme cyberpunk
Start with the cyberpunk color theme.
.TP
.B chattor \-\-config\-dir /tmp/alice
Run an isolated instance with a separate database. Useful for testing with two
users side by side.
.TP
.B chattor \-\-debug 2>chattor.log
Run with debug logging redirected to a file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tor (1),
.BR arti (1)
